Hello everyone and welcome to the linear regression with our lecture notes for this lecture are located
under the machine learning with our folder.
And this is known as the linear regression lecture notebook.
OK let's go ahead and jump to our studio and get started.
All right so here we are our studio.
The first step is getting the data.
You can just use the CSP file that's included in the machine learning of our folder.
It's called Student Dasch Matt CXXVIII.
I have it located right here at the bottom or you can get the data directly by downloading it from the
UCI dataset repository.
Here's the link for it and the link is also in the notes but again you can just use the V that's included
with the download of the notes.
Let's start by reading the CAC file.
I'm going to go ahead and do some of these commands in the console.
That way we can go along it and type as we go.
So I'll say read cxxviii and a nice trick here is do single quotes start with the first letter.
I know it's called Students press tab and I should get a dropdown list to choose from.
If you don't see the C as the file in the dropdown list you'll have to make sure that it's in your working
directory and you can vear work indirectly by looking here under the files tab.
So make sure you check that if you're not able to find or connect to the cxxviii file.
Let's go ahead now and check the head of that different file.
All right.
So if we take a look at this I noticed something looks weird and what's happening here is there's a
bunch of semi colons in my data.
The reason for that being is that this comma separated file actually is separated by semi-colons not
by a comma which means I'll need to read this line and add in an SEP argument.
So analysts say set for separator and then pasan a string with a semi-colon.
Now let's try to take a look at head DMF and now it looks much better.
If you ever get some weird error like that when you're dealing with a CSP file make sure you actually
try opening up CCV file maybe in notepad or just checking the first few lines of the CAC file and check
to make sure that it's separated by commas.
It may be separated by something else semi-colons is another common separator for CSB files.
All right.
Now that we check out the head we see that we have a bunch of columns here.
You can go to check out the notes for descriptions of all these attributes but the basic idea here is
that we have attributes for both students in a math course and students in a Portuguese language course
.
There's actually two data sets.
In this case we're looking at the students math one which is why it's Dasch.
Matt we're going to be trying to do is predict these final grades here.
Notice they have G1 G-2 and G-3 Jiwon is the first period grade G2 is the second period grade and G-3
is the final period grade.
If you're interested in what all these other attributes stand for and mean go ahead and check out the
note book the has all the information descriptions in it or you can even just check out the original
scription available for you in the UCI machine learning repository link.
Let's keep going.
And just a quick check a summary of our data frame.
So summary DMF and now I get a statistical summary we can go ahead and kind of explore this if we wanted
to.
In your own time.
But I'm going to go in and clean the data now let's go ahead and check to make sure if we have any null
values I'll clear the consul to check if there's any null values or an A values in our data frame.
We can say any function is not an A and then pass in our data frame rate.
So we get a false out which means that there are no and a values which is perfect.
A lot of real data sets will have any or null values.
But since we're just starting off linear regression we are using a nice clean data set has no N.A. values
.
Now let's go ahead and move on.
Let's make sure that categorical variables have a factor set to them.
For example if we look at the M job column which refers to categories of job types and I can do that
by checking the structure of my data frame with S T R though this year I have my job and it says it's
a factor with 5 levels whenever you're dealing with a new data set you would want to make sure that
variables are features you expect to be factors with levels are actually factors of levels.
Notice however that we do have some features where you may choose to have them as a factor or not have
them as a factor.
For instance m Edu and F edu if you check out the descriptions and Edu is the mother's education FBD
use the father's education where zero is none.
One is primary meaning fourth grade level two is fifth to ninth grade and then three is secondary education
for his higher education.
It's up to you whether you want to classify these sort of data points as continuous or discrete because
in a sense you can kind of treat them as both technically they are discrete.
You are grouping them by educational level.
But the numbers are actually in a continuous order.
So 0 is the lowest level of education and 4 is the highest level of education.
So you can't treat them as integers.
This is a good test on your data.
After you run your model to come back and see if it's worth changing one of these to a factor let's
go ahead and move on and leave the data as is.
There are other factors you can consider in this data.
For instance trying to factor travel time or study time.
But if we look at the data a lot of these can be treated either way either as integers or factors.
And it looks like the ones that actually need factors with levels to them have already been taken care
of.
That means let's going to move on.
The state has basically already been cleaned for us.
What to do now is used G.G. plot to explore the data a little bit going to clear the cons..
And let me go ahead and call the libraries here in my scripts the libraries I'll be using is G-G plus
two.
I'll go ahead and call G-G themes in case you want to put a nice theme and I'll also call the player
so it's easier to work with my data.
You go in and run this control shift.
S wups G.G. quads.
All right.
There we go.
Looks like everything's taken care of.
What I want to do now is create some sort of plot that allows me to understand the correlations between
each of the features correlation in statistics is suffer at the pendens or association any statistical
relationship between two features of a data point correlation.
Plots are a great way of exploring data and seeing if there's any interaction terms we can just start
off by grabbing the numeric correlation and you can go ahead and check out the Wikipedia page for correlation
.
If you want more info on this there's also an infant in information.
That bit in the notebook.
First thing I to do is grab only the numeric columns.
So I'll say name only and I'll say none.
C o LS I'll say s.
Apply pass in my data frame and then I'll pasan is that numeric.
And that's going to return only the numeric Kolb's.
Next I'm going to filter
the numeric columns for correlation and I'll show you how we can do that we can say or make an object
called core data and I can use the core function which belongs to stats and it's basically a function
that allows us to grab correlations.
So I just have to pass pass in my numeric columns here.
Notice I'm saying a comma here in order to get all the numeric columns and then let's go ahead and print
out order data.
All right and this is essentially just the data frame of the correlation between each of the numeric
variables in order to explain this.
It makes sense that age and age have are perfectly correlated mean have a correlation of one.
In fact you'll see essentially a diagonal of one being perfectly correlated.
Going through this correlation data frame which makes sense because each feature is perfectly correlated
with itself.
And then you can explore numerically what other features are highly correlated with each other.
Maybe you're interested in finding out.
Does age have any correlation with education level.
Maybe it's a negative correlation.
OK so after exploring that a bit you may start thinking these numbers are little hard to actually interpret
directly.
While this is fantastic information it's pretty hard to take it all in.
So what you're going to want to do is visualize this data.
There are lots of amazing third party packages to do this.
So let's go ahead and show you which ones you'll need to install.
The packages we're going to be installing our core Graham and core plot.
And these are really nice packages that help us to easily plot out correlation diagrams.
So the first one is called Coorg Graham.
It's c o.
Archie r a.
M go ahead and install that package.
I'm going to jump now to the finish downloaded install.
All right so I jumped ahead.
Everything's downloading now.
That was core Graham package.
I'm going to go ahead and type it up here so we can go ahead and import it later.
It's called Graham hopefully.
Just go ahead and install that the next package I want to go ahead and install install the packages
as core plots.
C O R R R P L O T.
And I'm going to go ahead and install that.
Going to hit enter there and I'm going to go ahead and jump to the finished download and install.
Let me go ahead and jump to that now.
And here we are core plot successfully unpacked and installed.
Let's go ahead and call that library as well or plots.
OK.
So we have court Graham and core plot.
Go ahead install those packages Kishan you to reference the package names.
Go ahead and check out the notes which has the package names for you.
Well we're going to go ahead and do is start by using core plot which is the more common one.
It has a really nice documentation page for the package and encourage you to play around with it.
But the basic We use core plot is you just say
core plots.
After calling it let me go and just from the command line or from the console line excuse me call core
plot.
So library core plots and then we're going to worry about the warning message if you get one.
And then what we can go ahead and do is save prints or plots in all you have to do is pass in the correlation
data that we already have which is right here and this correlation data is just the core function called
on only the numeric columns.
You go ahead and look at your environment variables.
You should have it over here and their core data and then you can pass in an additional method arguments
.
In this case the method we're going to do is just called Color.
So go ahead and pass in the string color.
There's various core plots you can do this one will do is called CT color.
Click on Zoom and you can see a color coded core plot or correlation diagram which allows you to quickly
easily visualize those correlations.
You'll notice here that there is a diagonal dark blue which means perfect correlation that makes sense
because every feature should be perfectly correlated.
So we should also notice is that there's a high correlation between G1 G-2 and G-3 grades that intuitively
makes sense because if you did a good grade on your first period you probably had a good grade on your
second period and probably that had a good grade in your final third period.
Or if you had a bad grade you probably had a bad grade.
First one bad grade second one that great third one.
So it makes sense that those three are highly correlated.
It also makes sense that having a high grade is inversely correlated to the failures each year and the
failures.
Feature column was a number of past class failures and it was a numeric column.
One last interesting interesting correlation is that the mother and father education levels are also
pretty correlated which kind of makes sense usually couples pair up at a similar educational level not
always but it makes sense here that they'd be correlated.
Let's go ahead and move on.
By using Cor Graham we just showed you how to use core plots.
Again all you had to do was say Prince core plots pass in the correlation data and then pass in the
method.
Now we're going to learn how to use CT Graham.
All right so we learned how to use core plot.
Let's go ahead and move on to learning how to use CT.
Graham there's a lot going on of course Graham and there's lots of options.
We'll show you a few of them that may be useful to you.
But the main feature about Coorg Graham versus core plot is that core plot required us to take and filter
by numeric columns and then only grab those numeric columns where we can do of course Graham is actually
just passing the data framed directly.
I want to go ahead and show you how we can do that.
You can say CT Graham and I'll just pass in the data frame at first to show you what it looks like and
we click zoom here on the change we gets a data frame that looks something like this.
This actually isn't super helpful if and in fact in the labels or bars but it's actually essentially
the same information.
Here again you can see that Jumanji 2G three are highly correlated because they are dark blue.
And again you can see here with the education levels are also more correlated.
This case we just have the instead of a diagonal of perfect correlation we actually just put in the
feature name or the column name.
Now you can keep adding a lot more arguments to court Graham if you want to check out all the possibilities
of court.
You can say help court Graham.
And this is going to be basically telling you how to draw Curle epigram which is what we're doing.
And it's a Cornello grim kind of mispronounced that previously.
It's Karla Graham.
And you can check out all the various arguments here there's a ton of stuff you can do with it.
I would suggest that you actually just check out the links and notes that are in the documentation.
The notes have links to documentation because there's a lot of options in the notes for this lecture
.
I have this command that you can go and copy and paste and essentially passing in the data frame ordering
by is equal to true and what order does is it really orders on a basically PCA based re ordering a principal
components analysis.
And it goes ahead and we'll put in some lower panel upper panel text panel arguments as well.
Again go ahead and check out the documentation if you're interested in that.
But I'm going to go ahead and click enter here just to show you what this looks like and is what that
plot looks like zoomed in.
Again you have a diagonal of all the features.
And in this case what we actually specified was that the lower panel is just a regular shaded box depicting
the correlation and that the upper panel is a pie chart depicting the correlation where a fool pie chart
would be equal to one perfectly correlated.
And then this kind of gives you a rough idea of the actual numerical value.
You can essentially just say how filled in the correlation pi is is how correlated they are where blue
indicates positive correlation and red would indicate negative correlation.
So something was fully covered blue or filled in blue as a pie chart.
That would mean it's perfectly correlated.
It's going close this.
Again you can check the Coram documentation if you want core plot is usually the more commonly used
one.
You do have to only use numeric columns so you have to get the numeric columns and then call the C R
correlation function on your data frame of the numeric columns core Graham.
You can pass in the data frame directly.
But then you have to add a couple more arguments in order to specify which you want the plot to actually
look like.
OK.
So that's it for correlation plotting.
Let's go ahead and do a little bit of a quick plot on the G3 score because that's actually what we're
going to try to predict using linear regression.
Again right now we're just doing exploratory data analysis.
I'm going to go ahead and say G-G plots.
Whoops Esson my data frame.
I want a histogram of the D-3 score.
Let's just go ahead and check that out.
So I'll say X is G-3 and we'll say gee underscore histogram I'll say been sequel to 20.
Given an alpha value of 0.5 and we'll say Phil is blue.
Whoops.
Let's go ahead and run that's if you're running it in your script.
Say Prince some doing their eclipse at the con..
They don't have to.
This is what this looks like.
It's going to zoom in on it looks like there are a bunch of zero g three values that's going to be important
to know.
So a lot of people just either don't show up for the test or completely fail the test.
And that's why they get a zero score.
But it also looks like we have a very high mean value at 10.
So we may want to start asking is this test curve does that why there's so many values right at the
middle at 10 what's actually going on there.
All right that's it for the exploratory data analysis of this lecture.
Coming up next will actually start building a model and performing linear regression on this data.
Take your time.
Go ahead and go through the data notebook and check out the structure of the summary.
Do any other visualizations that are interesting to you.
This was just the exploratory data analysis phase they should always do with your data to get a good
feel for it.
Coming up next is the actual building of the model of linear regression.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture